# Why is Cryptography Necessary
Many people think that ciphers are a child's plaything. I come from a very mathematical family, and encrypted text often showed up only in escape rooms and challenge puzzles. I didn't believe that cryptography could be the type of thing adults were doing for a living in security. However, this could not be further from the truth. Governments have even had to censor papers and literature that released findings related to decrypting, especially if it was cutting-edge at the time. For centuries, the ability to send secure messages has been requisite for ensuring privacy and secrecy. Ancient generals used ciphers to organize their troops. Researchers have leveraged cryptoanalysis techniques to read languages that we have long been unable to read. Digital information is *everywhere* and messages are constantly being sent over wires and radio frequencies in the modern world. Encryption is a very powerful tool - it's all around us... Are you ready to **learn cryptography, one byte at a time**?

# What is the Goal of Cryptography?
Cryptography is the study of systems that enable a message to be encrypted, sent, and then decrypted only by a specific person or party. Many ciphers exist that can be easily solved once the type of encryption is known. Alice and Bob are often used in the realm of cryptography to represent two people trying to get a secret message to each other without an eavesdropper being able to figure out the message. However, if that outside party knows that Alice is using a simple well-known Caesar's Cipher shift, they can easily try all of the possible shifts and find the one that produces a coherent message. This is an extremely simple program for a computer to run, but more on that in Chapter 2. Because of this fault, a Caesar's Cipher shift is obviously not a strong encryption technique for the modern day. A strong encryption usually is so good at what it does that it doesn't even matter if the outside party knows what encryption is being used. 

# Possible Options to Consider... or No?
When I first learned about cryptography, I saw this as a simple problem. I mentally visualized Alice putting a secret message in a box, locking it, and only the intended audience (Bob) would have the key to unlock it. But I was very quickly humbled when I realized that this was a flawed ideology. ***How do Alice and Bob agree on the key to use?*** Do they have to meet up, or do they have to send it in the mail (which is a very bad idea - **don't send keys through the mail**)? But... how do they send secure messages to each other from anywhere in the world? I must admit, I was quite perplexed.
